README.md, before:

# WTWR (What to Wear?)

## About the project

WTWR is a weather-based clothing recommendation application that helps users choose appropriate clothing based on current weather conditions. The application fetches real-time weather data from the OpenWeatherMap API and provides personalized clothing suggestions.

## Functionality

- **Weather Display**: Shows current temperature, weather conditions, and location
- **Clothing Recommendations**: Suggests appropriate clothing items based on weather type (hot, warm, cold)
- **Dynamic Weather Cards**: Displays different weather backgrounds based on conditions and time of day
- **Add Clothing Items**: Modal form to add new clothing items with weather type selection
- **Item Details**: Modal to view detailed information about clothing items
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices

## Technologies and Techniques Used

- **React 18.2.0**: Functional components with hooks
- **JavaScript (ES6+)**: Modern JavaScript features including async/await
- **CSS3**: Custom styling with BEM methodology
- **OpenWeatherMap API**: Real-time weather data integration
- **Vite 5.0.8**: Build tool and development server (as required by project specifications)
- **Cabinet Grotesk Font**: Custom typography
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── App/          # Main application component
│   ├── Header/       # Navigation and user info
│   ├── Main/         # Main content area
│   ├── Footer/       # Footer component
│   ├── WeatherCard/  # Weather display component
│   ├── ItemCard/     # Clothing item cards
│   ├── ModalWithForm/ # Add clothing modal
│   └── ItemModal/    # Item details modal
├── utils/
│   ├── constants.js  # Default clothing items and API configuration
│   └── weatherApi.js # Weather API integration
├── vendor/
│   ├── normalize.css # CSS reset
│   ├── fonts.css     # Font declarations
│   └── fonts/        # Font files
└── assets/           # Images and other assets
```

## Features

- **Real-time Weather**: Fetches current weather data for Tel Aviv-Yafo
- **Weather-based Filtering**: Shows clothing items appropriate for current weather
- **Day/Night Backgrounds**: Different weather card backgrounds based on time of day
- **Interactive Modals**: Add new clothing items and view item details
- **Dynamic Content**: Weather data updates automatically

## Installation and Setup

### Option 1: Quick Start (Recommended)

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. **Start both servers with one command:**
   - **Windows:** Double-click `start-servers.bat`
   - **Mac/Linux:** Run `./start-servers.sh` in terminal
4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

### Option 2: Manual Start

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. **Start the mock API server** (required for clothing items):
   ```bash
   npm run server
   ```
4. **Start the React development server** (in a new terminal):
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

**Important**: Both servers must be running simultaneously for the application to work properly:

- React app runs on port 3000
- Mock API server runs on port 3001

### Troubleshooting

If you see "No clothing items available" or console errors:

1. Make sure both servers are running
2. Check that port 3001 is not being used by another application
3. Try stopping and restarting both servers
4. Verify the API is working by visiting: http://localhost:3001/items
5. Ensure `db.json` exists in the root directory with the correct `items` array structure

## API Configuration

The application uses the OpenWeatherMap API with coordinates set for Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel. The API key and coordinates are configured in `src/utils/constants.js`.

## Links

- [Figma Design](https://www.figma.com/file/DTojSwldenF9UPKQZd6RRb/Sprint-10%3A-WTWR)

Commit message:

cleanup: remove backend files and restructure to frontend-only project

README.md, after:

# WTWR (What to Wear?)

## About the project

WTWR is a weather-based clothing recommendation application that helps users choose appropriate clothing based on current weather conditions. The application fetches real-time weather data from the OpenWeatherMap API and provides personalized clothing suggestions.

## Functionality

- **Weather Display**: Shows current temperature, weather conditions, and location
- **Clothing Recommendations**: Suggests appropriate clothing items based on weather type (hot, warm, cold)
- **Dynamic Weather Cards**: Displays different weather backgrounds based on conditions and time of day
- **Add Clothing Items**: Modal form to add new clothing items with weather type selection
- **Item Details**: Modal to view detailed information about clothing items
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices

## Technologies and Techniques Used

- **React 18.2.0**: Functional components with hooks
- **JavaScript (ES6+)**: Modern JavaScript features including async/await
- **CSS3**: Custom styling with BEM methodology
- **OpenWeatherMap API**: Real-time weather data integration
- **Vite 5.0.8**: Build tool and development server (as required by project specifications)
- **Cabinet Grotesk Font**: Custom typography
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── App/          # Main application component
│   ├── Header/       # Navigation and user info
│   ├── Main/         # Main content area
│   ├── Footer/       # Footer component
│   ├── WeatherCard/  # Weather display component
│   ├── ItemCard/     # Clothing item cards
│   ├── ModalWithForm/ # Add clothing modal
│   └── ItemModal/    # Item details modal
├── utils/
│   ├── constants.js  # Default clothing items and API configuration
│   └── weatherApi.js # Weather API integration
├── vendor/
│   ├── normalize.css # CSS reset
│   ├── fonts.css     # Font declarations
│   └── fonts/        # Font files
└── assets/           # Images and other assets
```

## Features

- **Real-time Weather**: Fetches current weather data for Tel Aviv-Yafo
- **Weather-based Filtering**: Shows clothing items appropriate for current weather
- **Day/Night Backgrounds**: Different weather card backgrounds based on time of day
- **Interactive Modals**: Add new clothing items and view item details
- **Dynamic Content**: Weather data updates automatically

## Installation and Setup

### Option 1: Quick Start (Recommended)

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. **Start both servers with one command:**
   - **Windows:** Double-click `start-servers.bat`
   - **Mac/Linux:** Run `./start-servers.sh` in terminal
4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

### Option 2: Manual Start

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. **Start the mock API server** (required for clothing items):
   ```bash
   npm run server
   ```
4. **Start the React development server** (in a new terminal):
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

**Important**: Both servers must be running simultaneously for the application to work properly:

- React app runs on port 3000
- Mock API server runs on port 3001

### Troubleshooting

If you see "No clothing items available" or console errors:

1. Make sure both servers are running
2. Check that port 3001 is not being used by another application
3. Try stopping and restarting both servers
4. Verify the API is working by visiting: http://localhost:3001/items
5. Ensure `db.json` exists in the root directory with the correct `items` array structure

## API Configuration

The application uses the OpenWeatherMap API with coordinates set for Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel. The API key and coordinates are configured in `src/utils/constants.js`.

## Backend Repository

The backend API server for this project is available at:
- [Backend Repository](https://github.com/BarryRogerG/se_project_express)

## Links

- [Figma Design](https://www.figma.com/file/DTojSwldenF9UPKQZd6RRb/Sprint-10%3A-WTWR)
